Rheumatoid arthritis or RA,
is a chronic inflammatory disease that
causes pain and swelling in joints.
The causes of RA is not well understood,
but it is believed to be the result of the immune system
attacking the lining of your joints.
Causing a painful swelling
that can eventually result in bone loss and joint deformity.
Although there is no cure for RA,
there are treatments that slow down joint degeneration
and reduce the effects of RA.
One of these treatments is called TNF-alpha inhibitors.
TNF-alpha plays a major role in RA inflammation.
TNF-alpha which is secreted by immune cells,
regulate signaling to other immune cells
to attack bone and cartilage cells.
This is what leads to swelling, pain and joint deterioration.
TNF-alpha inhibitors block the action of TNF-alpha
which prevents TNF-alpha from recruiting immune cells
to cause more inflammation.
TNF-alpha inhibitors aren't a cure for RA,
but they do help reduce pain,
morning stiffness and tender or swollen joints.